VI. SPECIAL CONDITIONS, IRRIGATION TYPE, AND WATER SOURCE
When any of the following special conditions, type of irrigation, or source of water is used, a (-)
should precede them. When more than one is used they should be used in the order stated above.
1. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(only one can be used per parcel)
A - ABANDONED ORCHARDS AND VINEYARDS
Trees or vines must be in such a condition that renewal of cultural practices would restore
economic production. Indicated by "A" following crop symbol.
Example: D1-A indicates an apple orchard previously irrigated but now abandoned.
B - BURNED OVER AREAS
Indicated by "B". The type and density of natural cover destroyed by fire is obtained by
examination of aerial photo.
Example: NV7-B indicates oak grass land recently burned over.
F - FALLOW LANDS
Land not cropped during the current crop season, but cropped during the previous crop
season.
(1) If no crop residue is apparent or identifiable then the "F" symbol will follow the
agricultural class symbol for the crop most representative of those grown in the area.
Example: T-F indicates fallow land within a truck crop area (with facilities for
irrigation).
(2) If the crop residue is apparent and identifiable but is not from the current crop season
covered by the survey then the field is considered fallow and mapped as the class of the
crop residue.
Example: Surveyor found an old sugar beet residue not from current season.
Land would be mapped F-F.
(3) If the crop residue is identifiable as that of a crop which was grown during the survey
period, then map the field as though crop existed.
Example: Surveyor found carrot residue from current growing season. Land
would be mapped T6.

K - FREEWAYS
The area within the freeway right of way.
Examples: UV-K indicates urban vacant, unsegregated, with a freeway special condition
(all areas within the freeway right of way).
UV4-K indicates the urban vacant paved areas with a freeway special
condition (the paved portion within the freeway right of way.)
UL3-K indicates irrigated urban landscape with a freeway special condition
(irrigated landscape portion within the freeway right of way).
M - MILITARY AREAS
(Use only with the URBAN classes)
Indicates land owned or controlled by the military and is used following the land use symbol.
Example: UR3-M indicates multiple family dwellings within a military area.
R - RECREATIONAL
To be used with urban residential, commercial, and vacant (R.V. parks and camp sites) within
primarily a seasonal recreational area.
S - SEED CROP
Indicates any crop grown for seed.
Example: P1-S indicates irrigated alfalfa seed crop.
T - TILLED LANDS
Land prepared for immediate planting, or just newly planted, including the appearance of seed
lines or unidentifiable tiny seedlings.
Example: T-T indicates tilled land (either prepared for planting or just planted) in a
predominately truck crop area.
X - PARTIALLY IRRIGATED CROPS
Crops irrigated for only part of their normal irrigation season.
Example: P3-X indicates partially irrigated mixed pasture.
Y - YOUNG NON-BEARING ORCHARDS AND VINEYARDS
Example: C3-Y indicates young non-bearing irrigated oranges.
Z - RECLAMATION
Land being leached for the removal of harmful salts. This symbol will be used following either
the Idle symbol or symbols of crops grown as a step in the reclamation process.
Example: I2-Z indicates new lands being leached in preparation for crop production.

2. TYPE OF IRRIGATION SYSTEM
C - Center Pivot Sprinkler
L - Linear Move Sprinkler
R - Side Roll Sprinkler
H - Hand Move Sprinkler
P - Permanent Sprinkler
F - Furrow Irrigation
B - Border Strip Irrigation
N - Basin Irrigation
W - Wild Flooding
S - Subirrigation
D - Surface Drip Irrigation
A - Buried Drip Irrigation
M - Micro Sprinkler
E - LEPA (Low Energy Precision Application)
U - Unknown or not mapped
As part of the map symbols these irrigation type letters required a circle around them so that
they are not confused with the special condition letters.
Example: P1- B indicates border strip irrigated alfalfa.
3. SOURCE OF IRRIGATION WATER
Water Source Code
Surface water 1
Mixed surface & ground water 2
Ground water 3
Unknown source 4
Reclaimed 5
Example: P3- B 1 indicates border strip irrigated pasture with surface water as the
water source.

VIII. MULTIPLE LAND USE
INTERCROPPING
Used with orchards or vineyards when intercropped with some other crop class. Indicated by
a fractional symbol, with the orchard or vineyard symbol appearing in the numerator.
Example: D12-Y/F10 indicates young almonds intercropped with dry beans.
DOUBLE CROPS
Used when two consecutive crops are grown in the survey season. The first crop is indicated
by enclosed parenthesis.
Example: (G)F6 indicates irrigated grain followed by field corn.
TRIPLE CROPS
Used when three consecutive crops are grown in the survey season. The first and second
crops are indicated by enclosed parenthesis.
Example: (T8)(T23)T8 indicates irrigated lettuce followed by cabbage followed by
lettuce.
MIXED LAND USE
Used when two to three land uses are present in one area but, because of the large degree of
intermixing, cannot be delineated separately. Indicated by percentages following land use symbols. No
more than three different land uses may be used in describing the area. Percentages are in increments
of 10.
Example: D5 - 40% indicates irrigated peaches 40%
NV - 20% indicates native vegetation 20%
UR - 40% indicates urban residential 40%
